
Feedback 1:

Have you studied the Trainium2 hardware architecture, e.g., what is the HBM capacity, how many NeuronCores per Trainium accelerator and whether they share the same HBM? I’m asking because it is very rare to use TP>1 for serving a 7B model on NVIDIA GPUs. The model weights only consume 14GB, which leave ample space for KV cache. Trainium is different, but still TP=4 for 7B feels an overkill that adds additional communication overhead.

Answer 1:

The trainium 2 has the following architecture:
Every chip has 8 cores and is attached to 4 24GB HBMs (total of 96GB HBM).
Every two cores are exposed to 1 24GB HBM. The Logical NeuronCore groups cores together to logically treat them as one. It can have value of 1 or 2. Our preset LNC=2.

The trn2.3xlarge instance has 4 logical cores, each core attached to 24GB HBM. It has 128GB DRAM.

Feedback 2:

“BF16 take around 28GB memory, and the neuronx compilation requires 2-3x more memory” This is a bit surprising. Usually for code compilation, it does not require holding the entire model weights and certainly not several times of the model weights. Can you run a small model say 1B model (or even smaller say 0.3B if 1B also OOM) on single NeuronCore and report the max memory footprint (if model compilation and inference have different max mem footprint, then please report both)?




Before running the 1B model with batch size 4 and output 256 tokens (you didn’t say the input sequence length, so I will leave you to figure that out, e.g. 512?), can you predict how much memory it would consume during inference and report your measured vs. your predicted memory? If you don’t know how to estimate memory consumption for LLM inference, please do the homework and study it yourself.







For the 1B model (assume on single NeuronCore no TP), can you run the following: alternate between output sequence 256, and 257 across batches, assuming everything else is fixed (controlled experiment), and report the generation time difference between the two? Please pay close attention to whether recompilation is triggered when switching the output sequence length.



Memory analysis for 


1,024 KV cache size